foreign if you close your eyes and you
think of the things that you feel are
most perfect in the world
those are also things that are deeply
connected we think of a flower we think
of a
scene we think of God we think of an
amazing product what the human
population sees as Perfection they are
all deep expressions of connection
welcome to the art of accomplishment
where we explore how deepening
connection with ourselves and others
leads to creating the life we want with
enjoyment and ease I'm Brett Kistler
here today with my co-host Joe Hudson
[Music]
foreign what is perfectionism if having
clear goals can be so helpful in life
how could it be that the simple Act of
measuring ourselves up to them so often
holds us back today we're going to
explore why our quest for Perfection
never seems to satisfy us and often only
slows or impedes productivity while
seeking connection tends to result in
better output better products and a
better life
so Joe what makes this such an important
topic oh man that's a that's a great
question there's so many reasons why
it's important to me the one that comes
to mind right away the experiment they
did it's the dried spaghetti experiment
and it's basically you give a group of
people
um 25 or so hard pieces of spaghetti and
a marshmallow and some masking tape and
you say build the highest structure you
can build
and it turns out that kindergartners a
group of like five kindergartners will
beat a group of five CEOs on a regular
basis
and the reason that the people who are
doing the experiment
is say that that's the case is because
the the young kids are iterating they're
just trying stuff out trying stuff out
trying stuff out and then when the times
that they've tried three or four models
and they've got something
and where is the CEOs are trying to make
it absolutely perfect and then they'll
put that marshmallow on at the last
minute the whole thing will collapse and
so they didn't iterate they didn't try
they tried to make it perfect and so it
didn't work and one of the things about
this experiment which is so cool is that
if you get those same five CEOs and you
add an administrative assistant they
will outperform the kindergarteners the
just somebody who can connect them
together
will immediately change it so on that
level it's a great example of how just
connection connecting with the tools
that you have experimenting iterating
right that's a form of connection
connecting with each other like with the
admin all of that produces better
results okay so that's one of the main
reasons why it's so much more
importantly
other more important thing is that our
neurochemicals do not
Propel us to be perfect they Propel us
to connect so it's in our nature
connection is in our nature
and so when you're working with Humanity
prioritizing connection makes it better
for you and everybody you're working
with and that's part of the reason you
get better results
is that people don't want you to be
perfect the idea of you being perfect is
going to be different from person to
person what they want is to feel
connected with you and what they want
and what you want is to feel connected
to them that's what we are
genetically programmed to do is to have
this sense of connection so you get a
deeper level of results and you get
deeper satisfaction in your life and
this is everywhere even in the places
where you don't expect it for example
sales
like there's one way of selling which is
the way most people sell they try to
write the perfect pitch and then present
the perfect pitch in a perfect way and
that just doesn't work as well as asking
a whole bunch of questions whether
that's question based selling or whether
that's
challenger-based selling it's just
asking a whole bunch of questions and
talking to the person finding out what's
important to them there's a great book
on this called Ready fire aim or is it
fire Ready Aim aim ready fire it's it's
basically saying that you don't
the job isn't to get a perfect product
and put it out there the job is to sell
the thing before you build it so that
you know what people will buy which it
means that you're more connected with
your customer
so then you're building what people will
buy rather than what you planned or what
you thought they would buy that's one
way to look at it the other way to look
at it is that you're prioritizing
connections you are saying I am going to
connect
with my customer and see what they
really want to see what it is that I can
really serve them
by providing instead of I have this cool
idea what what will make you buy it so
let's let's define our terms here to
sort of discriminate between what is
perfection and connection and let's
start by defining what is perfection
the critical parents voice in your head
is is what it is for most people you
know there we have this exercise in one
of the workshops that I do which is a
triggering exercise where people are to
trigger one another and people hesitate
to do it we don't do it because we want
to see people triggered we do it because
we want people to figure out how to
handle it when they are triggered yeah
and there's like a group of people I can
just like walk up to and I can trigger
people really easily because I can read
what will trigger them pretty quickly
and one of the things I can do is yeah
and one of the ways that I'll do it I
can just like see who the perfectionist
of the room is and I'll say you're a
perfectionist and it'll trigger them
because they're immediately in this
headlock with themselves because like
part of being a perfect is to not be a
perfectionist so it just messes with
them always but the way I pick those
people out is because I can see which
ones of them had super critical
appearance and you can see it in
everything that they do so in some level
perfectionism is just trying to make the
critical parent pleased and since the
critical parent could never really be
pleased it wasn't about you it wasn't
and it could be the critical teacher Or
the critical grandparent whatever so how
does that perfectionism show up what do
you what do you see in people in their
in their lives or the way they carry
themselves or even just briefly in a
workshop when you just met them oh how
do you say how do you see that it's
the amount of rigidity in the
musculature the amount of precision that
they operate with how much they're
second guessing themselves how stunted
their tones are the way that they speak
are
basically all it really results to is
rigidity and hesitation inside the
person when they're trying to be perfect
the hesitation part's really interesting
because uh like for me I've always like
identified or been like diagnosed as add
or ADHD and if I really like pay
attention to it the moments where I my I
get like Teflon brain that skips off of
my task if I really look at what happens
often it arises from a perfectionist
pessimism I sit down to write an email
and I'm like oh I'm just never going to
get this right I'm not going to get it
right at least not right now so why even
bother you know maybe some other time
the conditions will be perfect and I'll
know what to do but you know let's go
see what's in the fridge right now right
I think that's like they call it
attention deficit disorder the idea in
the label is that
Like Your Capacity to pay attention but
if you reverse it a little bit it's like
how much attention was paid to you it's
the attention deficit disorder does that
mean that you can't pay attention or
does that mean that there was a limited
amount of connection that you got and
that's what actually creates it so I've
noticed that that's like on the other
side is that connection feeling the idea
that you can do it perfectly is also
just simply a name in the fact that like
how what I think is perfect is different
than what you think is perfect there's
always someone thinking that you're not
doing it perfectly including you always
so
it's just the other thing you said how
do what is perfection it's something
that doesn't exist it's just the point
of view and the point of view if you are
being absolutely perfect somebody's
seeing you as being rigid or imperfect
or hesitant or whatever it is so that
that's how I describe it it there's no
such thing as that so the only way to
describe it is trying to satisfy some
critical voice in your head that is
never and can never be satisfied
having goals and a vision and striving
for Perfection is is good right it it
allows us to you know structure
ourselves and structure our minds so
that we can achieve something
how does that interact with this idea of
perfectionism yeah so
having goals and intentions those are
fantastic obviously it allows us to
focus right it allows us to decide which
way we're going to walk and we have
thousands of decisions to make a day and
if we make them based on a goal then we
are far more coherent and unified
especially if that goal is coherent and
unified I don't know if that has
anything to do with perfection
I don't see that as being perfect you
know your goal none of our goals are
perfect even right so as long as you
don't believe that there is some
Perfection you can get to then the goals
are really useful as soon as you think
there is a Perfection that you can live
up to then the goals become less useful
to be specific about that that doesn't
mean that you're not 100 confident
you're going to get to the goal it's
just the belief that there's some level
of perfection at the end of the rainbow
that just doesn't happen
yeah and the other thing is that the
best way to get to what we think is
perfection
I'd even say if you close your eyes and
you think of the things that you feel
are most perfect in the world
those are also things that are deeply
connected we think of a flower we think
of a
scene we think of God we think of an
amazing product we think of a person who
inspires us and in an ecosystem
ecosystem and it's a metabolism and it's
all also like a far more an expression
of connection than it is of perfection
so even what the human population sees
as Perfection they are all deep
expressions of connection it seems
related to the idea of Utopia being a
dangerous idea right but the idea of
iterating towards better than what's
what we have now is just sort of the
natural state which is the coolest thing
too right because iteration is far more
connected than Perfection right like if
I'm just iterating and I'm learning and
growing that is a connected experience
that's what life does it evolves
like it doesn't evolve to a perfect end
and so if you see yourself as trying to
evolve to a perfect end then you you're
no longer in the flow of life you're not
using all the natural
energy all the natural ways of being
that we were designed with to be
productive this is all reminding me of
the book finite infinite games by uh
James karst have you haven't what is it
yeah it's a fascinating and quite short
read actually it's quite poetic and it
just kind of describes this one very
broad concept across a bunch of
different domains in sort of short Pros
about how you know there are there are
games that are finite where the
um you know you achieve something and
you get the title you get the diploma
you get the trophy yeah uh you get the
money
and then there are games that are you
know they're not meant to be one yeah
the goal is not to win it and end the
game but the goal is just to keep
playing
right I think that's a beautiful way to
describe why connection and Perfection
work the way they work in our systems is
that
life is the game that you just keep on
playing and therefore connection is what
works and when you have a game that has
a finite end or you've created an
imagined finite end to it then
Perfection is there and that's the other
thing about it is that
fear creates a finite end in people so
the idea of perfection is really a
fear-based idea the idea that you have
to be perfect that you have a right
answer
that there's the right way to do it
that's all fear-based and fear does not
make great decisions yeah that's
interesting the a lot of ideals of
perfection are this belief that we can
get rid of everything bad that we can
reduce all error right
and there's a fear of like oh my God
like what if what if this happened what
if what if this still exists in the
world what if what if there's still
imperfection what if I still have to
feel yeah whatever this is that I don't
want to feel what if I could just cut
all of that out that would be perfect
yeah this is a the CEO of Netflix as a
great example of this or he talks about
his first company and he basically made
it idiot proof so it couldn't be broken
and then he only had idiots working for
him as he describes it and and then they
couldn't really adjust their company to
the new times and so in this company now
he has
exactly he has a system that's in place
to create a certain amount of chaos so
that he can create
an environment where smart people love
to be and where it's far more flexible
and that's that's tough or we're
flexible people like to be right exactly
and that's where connection right and
one he prioritized getting it right and
perfecting the other one he he
prioritized being connected with his
people so then let's get into the
definition of connection then
how how specifically would you define
that as relative to this idea of
perfection yeah it's it's a measure of
capacity for you or for anybody anything
to meet and accept things as they are in
the moment
right so if I'm connecting with you I'm
not asking you to be any different right
now
and as soon the more I ask you to be
different the less connected we're going
to feel
the more connected if I'm looking at a
landscape and trying to adjust it and
telling myself this is the good part and
this is the bad part and comparing it to
other Landscapes I am in less connection
than if I am and just full acceptance of
what the landscape is at this moment
so connection is
basically it's like the
the surface area of our awareness and we
take away surface area
when we start
looking for things that can be better or
things that are different or any way in
which we're calculating creates
distances that connection so
if you are a CEO and you want your
customer to be different you are not in
connection if you are a product manager
trying to get a different answer from
your customer then you're not in
connection if you are a husband wanting
your wife to not nag as much
or a wife wanting your husband to not
nag as much
then you are not in connections
connection is the acceptance of people
and things as they are that's what it is
and right neurochemically it is oxytocin
and serotonin mostly it's oxytocin which
is
the drug that is felt when we're in deep
connection when mothers feel when
they're breastfeeding and we feel when
we're hugging and we feel it during sex
and that's oxytocin and serotonin is
more of like a pride proud of each other
drug and something that you would feel
like if you were watching a friend have
a great moment you had a lot of pride in
what they had just accomplished those
are our connection
neurochemicals so that's the other way
to say what connection is
yeah more than just Pride it seems
serotonin is also involved in like
meaning and
uh station yes right that's right and
the way that to think about our ability
to have connection it's really our
ability to love ourselves and accept
ourselves as we are
the more I can love every aspect of
myself the more I can love every person
I come across as they are
and you can hear like there's somebody's
mind out there listening to this right
now and they're like
but if I accept myself as I am I will be
horrible I I will drink beer on the
couch or I'll just stay the same as I am
right now
what's interesting is that that doesn't
actually happen if you like look at any
anything any system that is deeply
connected and change is inherent it's
natural it's evolution is part of it
it's when people get rigid
when people try to do it perfectly that
change stops happening
yeah it's just that you don't get to
control the change it's just that you
you have to trust a deeper intelligence
in yourself you're deeper your deeper
intelligence your non-intellectual
intelligence to drive the change yeah it
seems like this comes up pretty
frequently in uh so much of so many
other aspects of the work that that you
do that we've that we've been doing for
example like the victim story that
people have around client relationships
it's like oh man all these clients just
there's so much wrong with them if only
they would see things the way we see it
we'd be able to do great work yeah or
fathers or mothers or girlfriends yeah
yeah exactly
that's right and and the way to think
about it too is just like think about
the people who really make it so that
you feel seen that really make it so
that you feel understood
like like feel that that is connection
right and those people
are seeing you for what you are they're
not trying to fix you or manage you
right and and if you think about like
what's so important about connection
like what what makes it important is
that like think of what you would do for
those people
think of the people who make you feel
most seen and most understood in this
world and what would you do for them
what would you do for yourself if you
really saw and understood yourself
deeply if you really felt understood by
yourself people listening to this who
haven't quit eating sugar haven't quit
smoking or haven't like what would you
do like there's a way in which you're
disconnected with yourself and if you
felt deeply connected with yourself
and you weren't trying to change
yourself the things that you would do
for yourself are far more outstanding
than things you're actually doing for
yourself right now right you tell
yourself you should do them but you're
not doing them yeah that brings me back
to that add example I described earlier
it's it's like the difference between
sitting down to write an email and being
like Oh God I'm just so like uh
procrastinating today I'm just never
gonna get this done oh I suck
um and that's you know telling myself
how I should be and then the connection
version would be like oh wow I really
want to get this right because this is
important to me
oh man and like whatever I do it's never
going to be there's always going to be
something I could have done better wow
okay yeah and how about just be
authentic do it the way that I want to
do it and then look at it and see if
that works yeah exactly so that
connection is
staying I talk about what it means and I
say that it's like accepting things are
in the moment the moment changes
so you just keep on accepting because it
keeps on moving it keeps on changing
yeah because the moment you accept
something you can also then turn that
acceptance into a new model of
perfection
yeah I'm going to connect to you
perfectly like I mean it's so amazing
it's like hey I want to connect with you
you can just feel that in your system
hey I want to connect with you
hey I want to connect with you perfectly
yeah it just immediately takes the
connection out yeah I've experienced
that relationships so many times where
like suddenly I'll have like a new idea
of like oh wow this is connection I
wasn't doing connection before now I
know what connection is and then
suddenly that can become a new
perfectionism where I'm like oh man like
I could call my brother and reach out
and talk right now but like uh I haven't
talked in so long and it's been oh and
then just you know right find ways to to
make it not okay somehow and then
procrastinate it exactly and that's the
amazing thing too is that we have all
these impulses inside of us that are
just popping up like
oh I want to work out or I want to
exercise or I want to move my body and
then that impulse which is the Deep
connection immediately get turn gets
turned into a Perfection of I should
work out right and then it's like
completely unmotivating and then here's
my workout plan that I'm going to hold
myself to exactly shame myself and judge
myself when I miss a day exactly and you
watch the little kids and they just
follow that impulse and there's no idea
of perfection and as they get older the
bigger the Perfection the more they're
stilted the more they're stunted and if
you look at the most
the people who have the deepest level of
depression that are feel most stagnant
in life their brain is telling them that
they're not perfect and they need to be
perfect all the time yeah yeah they're
just experiencing that Delta between
them and their model of what they want
to be
yeah I'll give you a little trick that I
do with people
um you know there's the most recently is
with my guy who cuts my hair great guy
and he um he's an artist and I I love
his art it's good work and
he was just having a hard time getting
people to you know buy and and represent
him and everything like that I'm like
hey man I've got a job for you and and
if you do it if you do this job
successfully I'll give you you know
whatever a thousand bucks or whatever it
was and
he's like okay well what's the job and I
said I need you to get 30 rejections I
need you to go out there and get like
get 30 people to turn you down if you
can prove to me you've got 30 people to
turn you down in a year I'll give you a
thousand bucks
and um I came back like two months later
I don't get my hair cut that often or I
had one and we didn't talk about it and
then I was like how's it going he's like
I've got three representations and I've
sold like 12 pieces right and it was the
difference between trying to get sold
and trying to get rejected
because his mindset moved from
Perfection to connection yeah speaking
of moving that mindset how how can we
consciously shift from a mindset of
measuring ourselves up to some perfect
ideal and rather focus on cultivating
connection
what is the practice here yeah so that
that question in itself implies
perfectionism right it's like how do I
perfect myself in this way and so even
that question becomes a little bit less
effective than another question right
and and so the other thing to say is
that there's also no such thing as like
perfect connection so it's asymptotic
meaning that you get closer and closer
but you can never actually arrive
and so there's no place to get to that
you're going to ever get to there's just
um proximity and feeling more and more
and more and more and more more
connected and I think it's important to
say that if you choose that if you say
hey what I'm after in life like my
you know every company has a bottom line
for most of them it's Financial bottom
line but there's other kinds of bottom
lines that people have what I've noticed
is when people
change their
life to having a bottom line of
connection they have incredibly happy
and productive lives
if they can measure their level of
connection on a daily basis and their
job is just to feel more and more
connected every day
that visceral sense of connection it has
a very very deep effect on on people and
so I just think it's really important to
say that but the trick is not to try to
get there because trying to get there is
a form of disconnection right there's no
there to get it's an iteration right
it's really more of an allowing
connection is more of an allowing right
if I'm not trying to change anything if
the definition of connection is not
trying to change anything
it's not quite that it's not wanting
things to be different you might want to
change stuff that's fine it's important
to change stuff obviously it's more
about not accepting it for what it is
even if you are trying to change it
which is in a sense allowing
imperfection allowing the error signal
allowing the
you know the pain of things not being as
good as you could imagine them being
correct right which kind of breaks
through denial because what is denial
other than just having this vision of
how things are no it has to be perfect
so this information that is inconvenient
you know
yeah also it's your imagination it's
it's imaginary Perfection is again
yeah exactly that's beautifully sad
yeah so how do you have deeper levels of
connection in your life and how do you
allow I would say a loud deeper level of
connection in your life yeah
um one of the things that's a really
important principle behind it is to go
into difficulty
is one of the ways that you get into
when I say difficulty I mean like
discomfort or vulnerability
that really creates a sense of
connection in folks uh it you know
if you've ever seen people who fought
together in a war it doesn't matter if
they haven't seen each other in 20 years
their bond is is ridiculous it's like
such a strong level of connection and
they've just gone through the [__]
together I build my courses so that
there's difficult moments so that people
can start feeling bonded to one another
so there's something about going through
difficult things together that creates a
bond same with yourself if you
you know if I have my little kids and I
have them do tasks that are hard for
them and challenging for them
they feel more connected with themselves
and more connected with me you know they
talk about how to build self-esteem and
one of the ways you build self-esteem is
by giving kids hard things to do and
then that's how they build self-esteem
it's not to take that away from them or
to try to make it so they're successful
so
it's the same thing internally and
externally and and then the other main
way that I talk about this is view I
talk about
something that I termed as view which is
how we relate to ourselves and how we
relate to
other people that's very operational and
so that if you practice this state of
mind it just leads to deeper and deeper
levels of connection internally and
externally can you explain view yeah the
most important thing is is a state of
mind I think that people it's almost
even Beyond a state of mind I think it
is a state that's beneath all states of
mind is another way to think about it
um metastate but it is yeah it's a meta
State yeah
a stateless State I've heard people call
it
um and it's good for internal and
external practices and it's basically v
stands for vulnerability I stands for
impartiality e stands for empathy and W
stands for Wonder so it's
walking around the world willing and
feeling vulnerable impartial empathetic
and and full of wonder and this is not
just like how I interact with you as you
know like we have these conversations
that are in View and we do a lot of work
in here
but there's also it's also meditative in
like if you're sitting and being with
yourself quietly
how can you be more vulnerable with
yourself in that moment how can you be
more impartial with yourself
how can you have more empathy how can
you have more Wonder right we're
constantly telling ourselves
I should lose weight but we're never
really going what is making it so that
I've been saying that to myself for 20
years and nothing's happened right we're
constantly telling ourselves how we
should feel or how we should not feel or
how to avoid feeling but we're not
really actually just being empathetic
with ourselves and being with the
feeling we're constantly telling
ourselves how to do [__] what to do
we're editing ourselves all the time but
we're very rarely just ever being
impartial with ourselves like oh what
what's actually happening let's just
look at this thing
with kind of a a Watcher's eye an
observer's eye instead of a manager's
eye impartiality is amazing because
people often say well if I don't manage
it it's not going to turn out right
which is clearly not true when you just
think about most of the major decisions
that have changed your life or not
things that you decided I you're like
did you really decide to meet your wife
on
a Tuesday
at a bar or did you really decide
to you know even take that job or apply
for that job or did you just apply for
20 jobs you know like the decisions that
actually make our lives are often ones
that we don't have any control over
anyway
but more importantly it's like the best
change agent for things is awareness
it's not management
just aware being aware of stuff can
change things dramatically and we put a
whole bunch of management on it thinking
that that's necessary but it's usually
slows down relationship one's a really
great example because like yeah you
certainly can't plan connect the dots in
advance how you're going to meet a
person or a client or like you can you
can sort of try to you can try to
arrange your life so that that kind of
thing happens with higher frequency but
really there's a state of mind of being
open to it of allowing it of allowing
those synchronicities yeah and the more
that you recognize them and allow them
the more that they happen right and I'm
not in any way speaking out against hey
sometimes you it's important to say
we're gonna get to this goal right I I
think goals are fantastic I love them
the question is can you hold that with
an impartiality as well as a
determination it's incredibly easy to do
when you look at nature
like an oak tree that grows to be
whatever
five feet wide and 40 feet tall like
that's determination
and it's also very impartial it just
kind of it's just in the flow of things
that's the heart of the impartiality is
the hardest one for business people
particularly to really grok and
understand and so that one of the
metaphors I use for impartiality is
you're on a boat going down a river it's
important to row the boat but it is more
important to read the river
and if you are partial in reading the
river you're not reading the river
so that's the impartiality part and then
vulnerability obviously is
doing the things that are just a little
bit scary to let the little parts of
yourself that you judge out into the
world to find out that nobody else is
judging them they're just you playing or
to find that they might be judged and
that's okay and to find they might be
judged and that's okay right yeah I mean
the thing is we don't really care what
people are judging us because there's
like all the things that you're proud of
about yourself all those things that you
think are just freaking awesome about
yourself I guarantee you there's people
judging you for them I guarantee you
there's people and you don't care
the things you care about are the things
that you're judging yourself for
yeah exactly so we've got we've got
vulnerability impartiality empathy and
wonder we've talked about impartiality
quite a bit we've talked about
vulnerability let's talk a little bit
more about wonder wonder is curiosity
without uh looking for a solution wonder
is curiosity with awe
it has a certain level of awe to it it
has a certain amount of Amazement to it
and it is in the question
we think that being in the answer is
more productive than being in the
question
being in the question is incredibly
important and
just as an example you can have
you could have three different questions
arise one question is how do I have the
perfect relationship the second question
could be
how do I have the most connected
relationship and the third question
could be how do I have a relationship
the last 40 years and then ends exactly
at 41. right
it probably
and those are going to lead to three
different relationships what the
question is is far more important than
what the answer is and living in the
question is an amazing experience to be
in the question without needing that
resolution to just be in the Wonder
of life it just provides like answer
after answer after answer but to be in
the knowing you only get one answer
and I'd much rather have many answers
than one
yeah it's like seeing an animal be like
whoa that's a giraffe cool giraffe or
being like whoa look at the spots on
that thing yeah how tall it is so yeah
the little eyelashes oh what it has the
same amount of neck vertebrae as I do
what what how on Earth yeah exactly
right it's that feeling of just like
just question after question answer
after answer yeah one thing about
vulnerability that I didn't I'm not sure
if I hit is that everybody's
vulnerability is different right it's
like I see people often say like oh that
guy's not vulnerable you have no idea if
that person's being vulnerable or not
right because vulnerable for you and
vulnerable for me is different I could
tell you all about my childhood and all
the mishaps and drama
and you would be like wow man that was
super vulnerable your dad did what your
mom did huh and I would be like yeah
that's not vulnerable right that that to
me I've said it a thousand times I've
been in rooms and Al-Anon meetings and
groups for years of like hashing through
that stuff there's nothing vulnerable
about it for me
and that's kind of the path of
vulnerability is that you're constantly
showing up with that thing that's a
little scary
and all of a sudden it's not scary
anymore and then you show up with the
next thing and you show up with the next
thing and it ends up leading you into
authenticity into because all those
vulnerabilities are really just
ways that you're judging yourself and
preventing yourself from being what you
actually are right and vulnerability
could even depend on role as well like
an overbearing managers screaming it's
like oh that's that's somebody not being
vulnerable but a employee showing their
anger to a manager that they've been
like hiding for so long and just
resenting there's something really
vulnerable in that I would say something
vulnerable in both actually like that
basically the manager who's yelling is
basically saying I feel out of control I
don't I feel alone I feel out of control
I'm gonna go and beat myself up for
yelling in a couple minutes I feel
ashamed and I don't know what to do to
actually fix this situation so I'm I'm
yelling because I hope that it'll make
me feel like I'm in control for 20
minutes and to a third party Observer as
you were saying like our idea of what is
vulnerable is different like a third
party Observer might observe the the
manager as being invulnerable in their
anger and the employee is being
vulnerable and I see this in movies for
example there's so many examples where
it's like finally that person stood up
for themselves that was such a
vulnerable thing to do right right and
and the thing is the important part is
is are you being consciously vulnerable
right because like yes if you're getting
angry all the time and yelling at people
obviously that that level of
vulnerability though it's vulnerable for
you you probably don't recognize that
other people don't recognize it
so it's not it's not really going to
have the same effect as being vulnerable
in a way of like oh I'm gonna go stretch
myself here but what is very useful is
when somebody is yelling like that to
see it as vulnerability or I'm sorry I
keep yelling at you and I don't want to
be yelling at you I apologize yeah
that's the kind of vulnerability that
the person yelling is gonna it's gonna
really benefit them but to see them as
vulnerable when they're yelling just to
be able to look at them and say hey
you're not alone in this
we have this whole team wants to be
successful with you will immediately
change the yell it just will because
you're you if you can see it as
vulnerability that's great but for that
person to have the benefit and this
modality of view
the important thing is that you're
choosing vulnerability you're choosing
the thing that's vulnerable to you right
the one piece that we haven't quite
talked about is empathy and I think it's
an important thing empathy is
is just allowing yourself to feel the
other person it doesn't mean losing
yourself in the other person it doesn't
mean going into the other person it
doesn't mean confusing your emotional
state with their emotional state
it just means allowing yourself to be
with the person while they are feeling
stuff to be there with them in it
um so that's just an important piece on
the empathy
um so again vulnerability impartiality
empathy Wonder view yeah how does one
practice viewer cultivate this state of
mind
you can do it internally you can do it
externally like if you're a meditator or
if you just contemplate quietly just do
the some experiments see what it's like
to be vulnerable with yourself and then
see what it's like to be non-vulnerable
with yourself
see what it's like to be partial with
yourself
have a really strong agenda for yourself
and see what it's like to be impartial
with yourself
what about an agenda creeping into
meditation
right yeah well I'm going to meditate
into this particular state of mind that
I want to be in and that would be
perfect
exactly that would be very partial and
so would being partial of saying I want
to be impartial right now I mean this is
the the thing about
true meditation is not is is having No
Agenda having no management it's it's
more like sitting on the beach and
enjoying the wind across your face
um so oftentimes when I'm talking about
talking to people about how to meditate
I talk about it's just non-management
but the level of management is also
asymptotic it gets finer and finer and
finer and finer
right so maybe you start with just a
simple agenda which is to be a
genderless
maybe you start with a really simple
agenda of
being aware of your body but the idea is
that eventually the agenda goes away and
you become the passenger
you are being taken for a ride you're
not
driving
how do you bring that into your life
when you're in a a meeting or an
argument
or
working on a podcast yeah so that's
actually a little bit easier for view
um Wonder means you're asking open-ended
questions so if you're really curious
you're asking questions that are going
to give you lots of data so how what
where when questions not can do is
questions and why questions are usually
judgmental so
wonder is just asking questions empathy
is not trying to fix people's emotional
states not trying to change their
emotional state and to let them know
that you're with them that sounds like
impartiality it is and it's on the
emotional level they all are kind of the
same thing if you really when you start
really getting into them they're all the
same thing but impartiality is I use
that more on The Logical level and the
empathy is more on the emotional level
and it's to call it out because I think
that most people don't recognize or it
takes them a long time to recognize that
they are constantly wanting their
emotional state to be different
right um that they're constantly trying
to get to some state or trying to get
away from another state yeah we've all
been taught in some way or another that
happy is good
right some some parents are like oh I
love you if you're successful other
parents are like oh I love you if you're
happy and that's almost just as bad in
some cases
yeah it's not loving your kid for what
they are
and the crazy thing is is this this idea
is like hey if I love you for throwing
temper tantrums then you're going to
just keep on throwing temper tantrums
that's just not true it's like once you
love the part of yourself it changes
just like if you put awareness into
something that changes
there's this um principle in business
that says how do you fix a problem the
thing you do is you put attention
towards it and just the simple act of
putting attention towards the changes
the situation and creates a solution
and it's the same thing that awareness
just changes things and so does love
love just changes if you can love every
emotional state that you have they they
change that the friction of most
emotional states is your resistance to
them not the state themselves
if you're resistant to Bliss which oddly
most people are Bliss is very
overwhelming you know they there's this
great quote that says fear is excitement
without the breath
and it's just saying that excitement if
you forget to breathe because you're
resisting it is fear yeah right so so
that's what empathy is all about and
there's a and we're using different
parts of the brain and empathy and
impartiality too right one is mirror
neurons and one is opening our heart the
feeling of opening our heart and the
other one is impartiality is like
dropping the strategies dropping the
agenda yeah another another thing about
fear and excitement back in in base
jumping to the phrase similar to this
where excitement is the other side of
fear but getting into it more subtly
fear is when you feel something is off
and inauthentic and excitement is when
you feel like you're ready for it like
whatever like Cliff you're about to jump
off of if you feel like your equipment
is in line and your mindset is in the
right place and the conditions are right
then it comes through as excitement but
if there's a part of you that knows
something's wrong like you know that you
kind of feel like peer pressured into
this to be cool or you know that the
conditions are kind of off but you're
just avoiding hiking down because that
would be annoying then that there's a
constriction there that turns out into
fear and listening to what kind of fear
you're feeling can be a really good
indicator
yeah that's and indeed absolutely that's
a beautiful thing and I think what it
all requires fear excitement breath no
breath is to feel it it's to actually
feel which is what empathy is saying
is to actually allow the emotional state
to move through you and to flow without
resistance because you're never going to
get the intelligence of the emotion with
while trying to control it
you're not going to get the intelligence
of your people in a business if you're
trying to control it it seems like a
form of being receptive to information
rather than just drawing a conclusion
that's exactly right yep so so that's
the whole thing is That's The View and
that and so if you're practicing it out
in the world it's like wonders asking
questions empathy is being with people's
emotions
impartiality is
not trying to drive them to a place we
had this great experience where you know
we did these workshops where it was
these two-day practicing view that's all
we did just practice for you for two
days and and this is like deep stuff
like people will call me two or three
years later and go ah but I remember one
guy and it's more than one guy there's
multiple people where this happened
where they basically at some point in
the two days looked at me and said wow
I've never asked an impartial question
in my whole life
all my questions everything I'm saying
is trying to get somebody to do
something
and the people who are going to have
that recognition recognition the most
the people who are going to have that
recognition the most are the people who
are most disconnected are there people
who feel most lonely who feel
most disconnected
is because they have this incredibly
strong agenda for themselves or for
others
perfectionism
yeah exactly
so yeah and vulnerability is just saying
things that are vulnerable
um are asking vulnerable questions
asking the question that like might get
you fired or asking the question that
might make your boss angry at you but
it's your truth and that's the thing
about vulnerability vulnerabilities you
don't do the scary thing because it's
scary you do the scary thing because
it's your truth you do the you ask the
question because it's your truth or you
say the thing
and and even the work that I do when
people see me do one-on-one work they're
like holy [__] like
how did you ask those questions
and it happened to me too I'll feel it
I'll be like oh my God I'm gonna ask
that question oh [__] and you've seen it
happen you know where it's like and
those are usually the most powerful most
impactful questions yeah are the ones
my my sphincter is clenching hearing you
start to ask the question
exactly mine too yeah it's like and and
that's the that's when life just becomes
really alive and opens up and that's
where the most important stuff comes and
you know maybe some people are going to
join you maybe some people aren't
but that vulnerability really
makes it so that you get the life that
you want to live because you're you're
showing up as yourself and your truth no
matter the consequences no matter what
someone thinks
and that just drives the people who want
you for you into your life and drives
the people who don't want you for you
out of your life so that so it's a lot
easier and then
we have this whole technique of asking
questions and having how to have you
view question and answers and all that
stuff will be you know explicit in in
other materials but there's all sorts of
ways of using this to do sales and you
doing this to do management of people or
doing view to do product development or
doing view to talk to your father who
you haven't spoken to in 20 years and
and when you hear people have these
conversations it's amazing to see like
we'd give these homework assignments in
view in the view course and they would
like go out and talk to their dad and
then like parents siblings haven't
spoken you know getting back together or
husbands and wives realizing that they
had the same thing like all sorts of
beautiful things happen
bosses and employees changing the way
that they work together
co-workers changing the way they work
together from like 50-minute
conversations because you do this with
Executives I do this with Executives and
typically the executives like wait you
know I need to be partial that's how
I've like made my living and I can't be
vulnerable and I'm like well let's have
let's do it's just an experiment let's
do this for 15 minutes
and at the end of 15 minutes I always
say the same thing I'm always like hey
so how have you ever had a more
productive 15-minute conversation
and the answer is almost always no
because when you're that way it's an
incredible form of productivity because
you get to see and learn and grow so
much and CEOs start to learn like oh I
could you know there's this great book
that I I love
um Reinventing organizations there's
this example of a CEO going to his
people and say hey we just lost the
biggest contract we do not have enough
money
tell me what we should do and the whole
organization said you know what
we're all going to take a pay cut and
we're going to try to get another
customer
and so the people who are trying to get
the other customer obviously were
completely motivated because they saw
everybody do this pay cut they
themselves had a pay cut
and the CEO didn't dictate a pay cut the
people decided this is what we're going
to do
and that that's an expression of
vulnerability in a business and there's
thousands of those expressions there's a
Harvard Business review
case of a woman who basically had no
money she had a company and she had no
money to keep on going and her employees
stayed with her and it was all about her
vulnerability with the employees
it's so incredibly apparent when you get
out of the mindset that people do things
for money some people do things for
money for sure we all do some things for
money for sure
but most of what we do in life is not
for money Beyond carrots and sticks yeah
getting Beyond carrots and sticks and
having some faith that people really
want most people and the people that you
should have hired and the people
hopefully that you're
married to and are people who want
what's best for them they they want to
contribute they want to be a part of
things they you know they're
they're motivated if there's no money
people wouldn't just like all sit around
and go okay I'm done no more money I'm
finished
right if like everybody had food and
shelter that everyone's like I'm
finished I'm done
this example of the CEO reminds me of
something that you've said before where
the position of the CEO often feels like
the most lonely position in a company
yeah what would you have to say just to
you know to wrap this episode up neatly
into a perfect conclusion cherry on top
what would you have to say to that CEO
that that feels that uh that distance
and wants that connection but feels like
like no no that would just everything
would fall apart
I would say
um
I know you had to be resourceful and you
had to be self-reliant and you were
alone as a kid
but you're not alone now and if you're
looking for evidence look around at all
the people who are trying to make you
successful who they might not be able to
live up to every one of your
expectations
but it's probably impossible to find
anybody who's not trying to live up to
your expectations who's not trying to
make it work for you and for them and so
take a look at that and then
apologize to them for not recognizing it
and that would be the vulnerable act and
then see how much more inspired they are
to be there with you and to show up with
you
because they see your humanness instead
of are scared of you beautiful
well Joe thank you for a perfectly
imperfect episode
that it was
thanks for listening to the art of
accomplishment if you enjoyed what you
heard today please subscribe and rate US
on your podcast app we'd love your
feedback so feel free to send us
questions or comments you can reach out
to us join our newsletter or check out
our courses at Art of accomplishment.com
foreign